
CELESTIAL CHURCH OF CHRIST (CCC)
CENTRAL CATHEDRAL, ABUJA


	



UPDATED POLICY GUIDELINES OF EDUCATION TRUST FUND (ETF)

UPDATED MAY 2021




1. Introduction

Updated Policy document of the ETF Committee, In line with the decisions of the reconstituted Parochial Committee of 2021, to merge the ETF Committee  Unit and the Back to School Committee Unit and rename the merged Committee as the ETF Committee of CCC Central Cathedral Abuja.
  
ORIGINAL ETF PROJECT UNIT
The original Celestial Church of Christ Education Trust Fund (ETF) was established in June 2010 to commemorate the 2010 Juvenile Harvest Celebrations. It has a primary focus to help the indigent but deserving pupils of the Church Community who are at the following schools:
    i. Primary Schools (PS);
    ii. Junior Secondary Schools (JSS); 
    iii. Senior Secondary Schools (SSS)
    iv. Tertiary Institutions (2021 Updated)

Pursuant to the successful conclusion of the 2010 Juvenile Harvest Celebrations, the Central Cathedral Education Trust Fund Committee was inaugurated on the Harvest Thanksgiving Day. It was given a mandate to establish a scholarship fund for the deserving children in the Church in order to alleviate the burdens on their families. Various well-meaning individuals in the Church were moved to contribute and as a result of their support, the Fund became fully operational by September 2010. 

BACK TO SCHOOL PROJECT : 2017 – 2020

This Project is a humanitarian program aim at supporting indigent students of tertiary institutions who are members of the Church.  Recall that the Education Trust Fund (ETF) Project of the Church terminates at the secondary school level.   Therefore, the Youth unit deemed it necessary to extend the humanitarian project to the next level of tertiary institutions.  Hence, the above named project was conceived in 2016.  A seven (7) man Committee was inaugurated in October, 2016 to oversee the smooth take-off of the project.  

    • In line with the updated policy changes of 2021 Tertiary Institutions have also been integrated into the Scholarship menu of the Scheme

SCHOLARSHIP ELIGIBILITY: Eligibility criteria for the Church community are that;
    v. Parents/Guardian or student must be member(s) of CCC Central Cathedral Parish
    vi. One (1) child per family
    vii. Child must be a genuine student of a public institution namely: Primary School, Secondary School, University, Polytechnic and Colleges of education.
    viii. School bill receipt must be printed and must reflect the actual amount to be paid.  
    ix. Parents/Guardian of student must be seen to be economically challenged.
    x. An average of 2.1 CGPA is a criterion for continued scholarship at the Tertiary Institution Level.
    xi.  Postgraduate and other Higher degrees students are NOT eligible
    xii. Awardees MUST submit their academic result for record and filling purpose before next payment.

2. Objective of the Combined ETF Scheme

The main objective of the scheme is to assist indigent members of the Church who have demonstrable financial constraints in training their children or wards in either the Primary School or Junior Secondary School or Senior Secondary School in Abuja,  or tertiary  Institutions Nationwide.

3. Conditions Precedent for the award of the Scholarship Scheme

Considering the importance of the scheme, the following conditions prerequisite are required to be fulfilled by any intending applicant.
    i. The Parents/Guardians/applicants should be able to show evidence of demonstrable financial constraints;
    ii. The applicant should be able to show evidence of outstanding academic merit; and
    iii. The applicants must be the children of Celestial Church of Christ Central Cathedral members.

4. Types of Scholarship
4.1 Primary School:		The scholarship will cover Tuition Fees/ books.					  
4.2 Junior Secondary School:	The scholarship will cover Tuition Fees/ books and 	Certificate Examination Fees. 
4.3 Senior Secondary School: 	The scholarship will cover Tuition Fees/ book and 	Certificate Examination Fees.
4.4 Tertiary Institutions:                The scholarship will cover Tuition Fees/ book
                                                        and Certificate Examination Fees.
All fees to be paid will have a ceiling commensurate with the average paid in the public schools of the same category. 
Consequently the following ceilings will apply:
    • Primary Schools ---------N30,000.00
    • JSS and SSS -------------N50,000.00
    • Tertiary Institutions--------N60,000.00
Parents will be advised accordingly and will be expected to use their discretion when making their choice of School for their Children. 
5. Sources of funding the scheme 
Sources of funding the scheme shall be but not limited to:
    i. 25% allocation from the proceeds of each year's Juvenile Harvest;
    ii. Allocation from the proceeds of each year's Adult Harvest;
    iii. Donations from spirited Church members;
    iv. Levies of ETF Committee members as may be determined from time to time by the  and 
    v. Grants from the Church Authority.
6. Administering the Fund
    i. The Fund shall be administered in conformity with the objectives of the scheme and aspirations of the Church Authority.

    ii. The fund shall be disbursed to applicants who must have been screened by the Fund Committee and deemed qualified to benefit from the scheme based on school calendar year.
	
7. Operational Modalities of the Fund
There are four phases in the operational modalities of the scheme:
7.1 Phase one: Public announcement
Prior to the commencement of the school year, public announcements are made by the church General Secretary informing any prospective scholar of the availability of Church Sponsored Scholarships.
Once the Public announcement is made at the beginning of the school year, all intending applicants are enjoined to collect ETF forms from the Church Secretariat. Once the forms have been duly filled they are submitted at the Church Secretariat and a date is communicated to all applicants to come with their Parents/Guardians for screening and detailed interview by the ETF Committee.
7.2 Phase two:- Interview and screening
The screening/interviewing of the Scholars will be done by the entire ETF Committee Members or a quorum as circumstances may dictate. The prospective scholar and his/her parents will be subjected to an intensive grilling session to assess their admissibility to the scheme. The questions asked will be based on the responses filled in the form submitted by the applicant.
Once the Committee has screened and determined the applicants that best satisfy the above two primary criteria for awards, the most deserving applicants are then chosen and shortlisted for the scholarships. A careful appraisal will be made by the Committee of the funds resources and the optimum and most judicious allocation of the Funds resources will be determined

7.3 Phase three:- Verification 	
The ETF Secretariat shall verify the claims made by Parents /Guardians about the Scholars and authenticate the sums of money due to be paid to each School.
7.4 Phase Four  – Funds disbursement.
    i. All the successful Scholars will be advised to submit their most recent academic results along with their school bills. The ETF Secretary will then be mandated to prepare payment vouchers in a batch for all the scholars.
    ii. Once the payment vouchers are prepared, the ETF Chairman scrutinizes them to ensure they conform to the decisions of the ETF Committee and will then append his signature.
    iii. The ETF Secretary will then submit the signed vouchers to the Church Treasurer who acts as the Chief custodian of all ETF funds.
    iv. The Church Treasurer vets the vouchers for the Chairman ETF's signature. The Church Treasurer makes copies of the vouchers and retains the original for his records and then releases the funds to the ETF Secretariat.
    v. The ETF Secretary lodges copies of the payment vouchers along with the funds released with the Church Treasurer.
    vi. Attached to the Vouchers shall be the full list of approved scholars and the sums due to each. As much as possible scholarship payments should be made directly to the Schools Accounts by the ETF Secretariat .It is in the absence of such section vii) will apply.
    vii. Each successful scholar will then collect his disbursed scholarship directly from the Church Treasurer while appending his/her signature to the copy of the Payment Voucher with the Church Treasurer.

7.5 	There should be performance appraisal and feedback monitoring of the Scholars to ensure that the Scholars continue to excel according to the funds terms as written in Clause 3.
8. ETF Management Committee
In order to manage the Fund judiciously, the Parochial Committee of the Church, with the support of the Elders Council has set up a seven (7) member Committee to oversee the Fund. Membership of the Committee consists of the following:
    i. Chairman;
    ii. Secretary;
    iii. Treasurer;
    iv. Legal Officer; and 
    v. Three other members

9. Discontinuation of the Fund for any recipient  
A beneficiary will seize to enjoy the scheme when he/she:
    i. Completes the category of school for which the scholarship is granted;
    ii. Fails to submit the progress reports of academic performance as required by the Fund;
    iii. Fails to measure up to expected academic performance at school as required by the Fund;
    iv. Misbehaves either at home, school or in the Church;
    v. Ceases to be a member of CCC Central Cathedral, Abuja; and or 
    vi. When the Church Authority decides to stop the scheme.

10. Updated Bank Account Details for the Fund

    i. Sequel to the updated Policy Changes of the 2021 Parochial Committee, a new Bank sub account dedicated to the ETF shall be maintained with the Sterling Bank  Plc, Abuja with account No: 0080949128.
 
    ii. All monies accruing to the Fund shall be deposited in this Sub Account.

    iii. Withdrawals from the Account shall be strictly coordinated and managed by the Parochial Committee 

    iv. The ETF Committee shall at the end of the interview and verification process of the Scholarship procedure submit an approved list of vetted successful scholarship candidates to the Parochial Committee for funds disbursement.



11. OTHER EMPOWERMENT SCHEMES:
    i. Subject to the availability of Funds, the Committee may use part of the Fund to assist Artisanal Skill Holders (ASH), who are members of the CCC Central Cathedral, Abuja to set up their trades.

Such ASH may include but not limited to the following trades:
    • Craft work such as bead making
    • Tire Vulcanizing
    • Hair Dressing
    • Ice Block making
    • Soap making
    • Fashion Design
    • Etc

    12.  YOUTHS SEEKING ADMISSION INTO THE UNIVERSITY OR ANY HIGHER INSTITUTION IN NIGERIA.

    • The Committee may from time to time, through the use of the Fund, on an ad-hoc basis assist youths in the Church to procure WAEC/NECO/NABTEB/JAMB forms that will enable them sit for entrance examinations to any higher institution of learning in the country. 

    • Such youths are expected to convince the Committee beyond reasonable doubt that they are constrained financially to procure the forms for such examinations. 

    • This arrangement shall be a one off opportunity for deserving youths in the Church.



       